---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why I decided to major in MIS
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-01-16
---

Management Information Systems (MIS) is a critical field of study that has caught my eyes during the past few years. Especially in the age of information and technology during which massive amounts of data are becoming available, studying MIS certainly helps an employer make well-informed decisions for their businesses based on the analysis of compiled and organized data. This way, the employer can maximize profit with limited resources and lead the development of the company in the right track. Nearly all of the Fortune 500 companies and hegemons of each industry employ MIS in their day-to-day operations to ensure their business success, and realizing the importance of MIS, many companies tend to require job candidates to have academic or career backgrounds in the MIS field. On the other hand, some companies might not require, but they still prefer job seekers to have MIS experience. Therefore, by selecting MIS as one of my majors, I will become more advantageous in the competitive job market.

From another perspective, I choose MIS as one of my majors because I see MIS as a major that is interconnected with other important business majors, including accounting and finance. Since my career goal is to become a certified public accountant, and I have declared accounting as my first major, I believe learning and grasping skills in MIS will complement with my roles and responsibilities as an accountant in the future. More specifically, in the accounting industry, I have learned from professionals of different accounting firms that accountants generally utilize several softwares to perform quality assurance, taxation, and auditing. Sometimes they also have to make meaning of the data that they organize and present their analyses to their clients, and in these situations, the skills from MIS will undoubtedly be very convenient and beneficial to help carry out these tasks effectively. 

Last, I deem it important to learn about MIS more deeply because by grasping the skills in MIS, I will be more able to help my families understand and use the technology part of the constantly evolving world. Nowadays, the heavy usage of technology is turning out to be more and more prevalent at a time when COVID-19 is taking place and more and more things are being displayed and stored online and on cloud instead of a physical location. This transition to advanced technology creates a digital divide where the younger generations master technology successfully while the older adults and senior citizens struggle with technology, preventing some portions of the older generations from effectively contacting and connecting with their friends and family members, doing necessary tasks that must be done online, and getting to know what is going on around the world. Therefore, in this sense, this struggle also makes these people partially detached from the society and in need of support. Since I am the only child in my family, I am responsible to ensure that my parents and grandparents live comfortably in the new world of technology by teaching them some of the skills that I will learn in this ITM352 class.
<br>
