---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-05
---

<h2>My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:</h2>
<p>
One of the ways that I have improved is developing the habit of checking either the console on the web browser or the console built within the terminal of the Visual Studios Code for the errors and where they occur. By identifying these errors, I always develop at least a quick and basic idea of why my applications sometimes do not work. Then, based on my discovery and understanding, I can start thinking and looking for various possible solutions to solve my errors. Another way that I have improved from the beginning of the semester until now is the clean and organized formatting of my codes, which helps me visualize the different components of an application more clearly and prevents me from making such unnecessary mistakes as syntax errors. More importantly, I am getting better at making sure to write comments next to my codes, especially for the more complex codes, since I believe detailed annotation of my codes can aid everyone in understanding my codes efficiently and effectively if they were to look at and refer back to my codes in the future.
</p>
<br>
<h2>I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</h2>
<p>
For me, one of the areas that I still need to work on is not writing more than seven lines of code before testting whether the added code works on my application or not. In assignment 1, I tried to program as fast as possible, thinking this could save my time on the assignment. However, it turned out that I made many mistakes that I was not aware of due to my rushing. As a result, at that time, these mistakes prevented me from posting the data onto the server and generating an invoice. Also, it was difficult to pinpoint where the issues were coming from since there were many errors that I needed to consider. In the end, I had to ask Professor Port for help to fix these issues. Another area that I also need to work on is being considerate of what I need from the online model layouts that I have taken and used, since for assignment 1 I originally took the entire model layout's HTML and CSS codes and applied to my assignment's layout. It worked at first, but the layout prevented me from centering my products on the products display page due to the great complexity of the layout's HTML codes. Consequently, I had to reconsider the layout structure and simplify the codes further. 
</p>
<br>
<h2>I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:</h2>
<p>
Yes, I have learned a lot from doing WODs such that I can do these WODs again without looking at the screencast solutions first. Also, because of my dedicated effort in completing the questions and programming portions of each lab, I gradually develop the skills that I need to complete the WODs. Without screencast solutions, I can do the WODs, but I will take a little bit longer than the expected time frame. I believe with more programming practices in the future, I will become more skilled and efficient in doing the WODs.
</p>
<br>
<h2>The labs have helped me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:</h2>
<p>
Yes, the labs have been helpful for helping me learn each learning module better. With Professor Port's explanation and guidance in each lab, I have developed a deeper understanding of the concepts behind how applications from each learning module operate. In the very beginning when I first started doing the labs, I had a very difficult time answering the lab questions since a lot of the concepts were brand new to me. However, as we performed more labs later on, I found myself accumulating more skills in programming such that I could answer the lab questions with ease and be able to help others in completing the labs. 
</p>
<br>
<h2>I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:</h2>
<p>
Yes, assignment 1 has both helped me review many things that I have learned throughout the semester and taught me new knowledge about programming. First, I  learned about how to integrate the online sample website and invoice layouts that I chose into my assignment 1. Next, I also learned about and practiced how to generate an alert box, how to do validations on an input value of a product through combining the validation rules for valid quantities and the validation rules for whether the input value of a product is within the in-stock amount, how to utilize CSS rules to solve various layout format issues, and etc. At the time of writing this essay, I am not fully ready to work on assignment 2, but I believe I will be ready after I complete the "File I/O" and Debugging labs this week.
</p>
<br>
<h2>I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:</h2>
<p>
The class can be improved in two ways. First, either Professor Port or Professor Kazman can help revise the wording and spelling of the lab instructions in the future so that it will be easier for future students to understand the instructions. Second, Professor Port should try to upload the recorded lecture videos a little sooner.
</p>
<br>
<h2>What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):</h2>
<p>
The things that help me the most in class are WODs, labs, class website, and one-on-one help. The WODs were additional practices that I received to help me improve my programming skills. For the labs, they have strengthened my understanding of the technical concepts for each learning module through answering the lab questions and doing the programming exercises in each lab. The class website is also helpful in terms of providing me with the regularly updated calendar that has all the current and upcoming tasks that I will need to do. As of the one-on-one help, by working with Professor Port, I was able to solve some of the key issues efficiently and effectively since Professor Port either helped me solve these issues during office hours or provided me with some of the possible routes/directions that I could take to solve these issues.
